templates/docs/tutorials/heist.md, before:

## Heist Templates

Heist is an XML templating engine based loosely on ideas from the Lift
Web Framework.  It functions as a bridge between your web application
and its views.  Heist templates are XML fragments that are not
required to have a single root element.  Heist uses hexpat, a haskell
interface to the Expat XML library, for fast XML parsing and
manipulation.  

Heist is being developed by the Snap Team in conjunction with Snap,
but Heist is a completely standalone library with no dependencies on
Snap.  Snap itself is also template-agnostic and does not depend on
Heist.  In the future, we are planning to use Heist in higher-level
Snap functionality, but the core Snap infrastructure and web server
will remain free of Heist dependencies, leaving the choice of
templating engine up to the user.  That said, we strongly encourage
you to use Heist in your Snap applications so you can take full
advantage of Snap's capabilities.

Heist templates serve two primary design goals.  First, they
facilitate the separation of the view from the other aspects of your
application.  Second, they provide abstraction capabilities that allow
you to avoid repeated template code.  This allows you to follow the
DRY principle (Don't Repeat Yourself) in the development of your
application views.

Heist has two primary template abstraction constructs: bind and apply.
They are implemented as specialized XML tags.

### The `<bind ...>` tag

The `bind` tag allows you to bind XML content to a single tag.
Whenever the bound tag is used, the template engine will substitute
the 'bind' tag's child nodes in its place.  This allows you to
essentially create your own higher-level markup language that Heist
transforms into whatever XML-based markup language is native to your
application.

#### Attributes

The `bind` tag has a single required attribute called `tag` specifying the
name of the bound tag.  If this attribute is not present, then the
`bind` tag has no effect.

#### Example

Here's a simple example demonstrating the use of bind.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.html}
  <bind tag="longname">
    Einstein, Feynman, Heisenberg, and Newton Research Corporation
    Ltd.<sup>TM</sup>
  </bind>
  <p>
    We at <longname/> have research expertise in many areas of physics.
    Employment at <longname/> carries significant prestige.  The rigorous
    hiring process developed by <longname/> is leading the industry.
  </p>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The full company name will be substituted at every occurrance of the
`<longname/>` tag.  This eliminates repetition and makes it easier to
make changes.

### The `<apply ...>` tag

The `apply` tag loads one of your application templates and inserts it
into the current template's XML tree.  If the target template does not
have any special tags, then the contents of the `apply` tag are
ignored.

#### Attributes

The `apply` tag has one required attribute called `template`.  This
attribute specifies the name of the template being applied.  Heist
template names work a little differently from traditional paths and
filenames.

If the template name contains a '/' character, then it will behave
like traditional relative and absolute paths.  The root directory will
be the root of your template directory tree, and the current directory
will be the directory containing whatever template is currently being
processed.

If the template name does not have any '/' characters, then Heist
searches in the current directory for a template with that name.  If
it finds one, then Heist applies that template.  The different
behavior is that if the named template is not found in the current
directory, Heist recursively searches up the directory hierarchy
looking for the name.  Heist uses the first template it finds on the
way up that has that name.  If no template is found, then you'll get
an error.

This cascading behavior allows you to put site-wide templates in the
top-level directory and selectively override them in subdirectories
for certain parts of your site.

#### Example

Consider a navigation menu that is used on many different pages of
your site.  You want to avoid duplicating the HTML code in multiple
different page templates, so you might put it in a template file by
itself called `nav.tpl`:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.html}
  <ul>
    <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
    <li><a href="/faq">FAQ</a></li>
    <li><a href="/contact">Contact</a></li>
  </ul>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Then to include this nav template in your front page template, you
would use the `apply` tag.  Here is what a simple home page template
`home.tpl` might look like:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.html}
  <html>
    <head>
      <title>Home Page</title>
    </head>
    <body>
      <h1>Home Page</h1>
      <apply template="nav"/>
      <p>Welcome to our home page</p>
    </body>
  </html>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When a user requests the `/home` URL, Heist would serve `home.tpl`,
and the nav template would automatically be inserted into the page.
Here is what the HTML will look like after Heist processes the
template:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.html}
  <html>
    <head>
      <title>Home Page</title>
    </head>
    <body>
      <h1>Home Page</h1>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
        <li><a href="/faq">FAQ</a></li>
        <li><a href="/contact">Contact</a></li>
      </ul>
      <p>Welcome to our home page</p>
    </body>
  </html>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


### The `<content>` tag

Sometimes it is useful to pass information (usually in the form of XML
data) into the template when it is applied so the template can insert
it in useful places.  This allows you to build page templates that are
not just static blocks of code.

In our previous example, we did not pass any parameters to the `nav`
template when it was applied, so the `<apply>` tag was empty.  If we
include data inside the body of the `<apply>` tag, the template being
called can access this data with the `<content>` tag.  The following
simple example illustrates this concept.  We create a site template
called `default.tpl`:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.html}
<html>
  <head>
    <title>Home Page</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="header">
      <h1>XYZ Inc.</h1>
    </div>
    <div id="content">
      <content />
    </div>
    <div id="footer">
      <p>Copyright XYZ Inc</p>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


The `<content>` tag "pulls in" the page content from the calling
template and inserts it into the content `<div>`.

Now we have a template for our home page called home.tpl:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.html}
<apply template="default">
  <h1>Home Page</h1>
  <p>Welcome to XYZ Inc</p>
</apply>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

And when Heist receives a request to `/home`, it will serve the
following:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.html}
<html>
  <head>
    <title>Home Page</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="header">
      <h1>XYZ Inc.</h1>
    </div>
    <div id="content">
      <h1>Home Page</h1>
      <p>Welcome to XYZ Inc</p>
    </div>
    <div id="footer">
      <p>Copyright XYZ Inc</p>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The two lines from inside the `<apply>` tag have been substituted into
the content div in `default.tpl`.  Notice the difference between these
two examples.  In the first example we pulled in a template
(`nav.tpl`) that went inside the page being served (`home.tpl`).  In
the second example, `home.tpl` is still the intended target of
requests, but the `default.tpl` template surrounds the content that
home.tpl supplies as an argument.  This seems like different behavior,
but it is just a different use of the same `apply` tag.  This
illustrates the power of a simple concept like `apply`.

### Bind and Apply with Multiple Parameters

What if, in the above example, we decided that the contents of the
header div should be different for different pages?  To do this, we
need a way to pass multiple parameters into a template.  Heist
provides this capability with the `<bind>` tag.  Inside the body of a
`<apply>` tag, you can have multiple bind tags surrounding data to be
passed as separate parameters.  Each `<bind>` tag must have a `tag`
attribute that provides a name for its contents just as described
above.  Then, inside the template, those tags will be substituted with
the appropriate data.

The previous example only needs a few modifications to `default.tpl`
to allow multiple parameters.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.html}
<html>
  <head>
    <title>Home Page</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="header">
      <header/>
    </div>
    <div id="content">
      <main/>
    </div>
    <div id="footer">
      <p>Copyright XYZ Inc</p>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


And `home.tpl` uses the `<bind>` tag with a name attribute to define
values for the `<header/>` and `<main/>` tags:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.html}
<apply template="default">
  <bind tag="header">
    <h1>XYZ Inc.</h1>
  </bind>
  Some in-between text.
  <bind tag="main">
    <h1>Home Page</h1>
    <p>Welcome to XYZ Inc</p>
  </bind>
</apply>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The result template for this example is the same as the previous
example.

NOTE: In this example the `<content/>` tag is still bound as described
above.  The `<content/>` tag is always bound to the complete contents
of the calling `apply` tag.  However, any `bind` tags inside the apply
will disappear.  If we changed `default.tpl` to the following:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.html}
<foo>
  <content/>
</foo>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Then the above `home.tpl` template would render like this:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.html}
<foo>
  Some in-between text.
</foo>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


### The `<ignore>` tag

In some cases you may want to include example data in a Heist template
that should not be rendered when the site is active.  Heist provides
the `<ignore>` tag for this purpose.  All `<ignore>` tags and their
contents will be eliminated in a template's output.


## Heist Programming

Heist lets you bind XML tags to Haskell code with a splice.  A
`Splice` takes the input node from the template and outputs a list of
XML nodes that get "spliced" back into the template.  This lets you
call haskell functions from your templates, while ensuring that
business logic does not creep into the presentation layer.

Splices that you write must have the type `mySplice :: Splice m` where
m is the monad of your choice (usually Snap).  `Splice m` is a type
synonym for `TemplateMonad m Template`.  The `getParamNode` function
is a TemplateMonad computation that lets you get the contents of the
splice node.  You can then do any processing you want using
functionality provided by
[hexpat](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/hexpat).

#### Example

The following is code for a splice that calculates the factorial of a
number.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.hs}
factSplice :: Splice Snap
factSplice = do
    input <- getParamNode
    let text = B.unpack $ textContent input
        n = read text :: Int
    return [Text $ B.pack $ show $ product [1..n]]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You must tell Heist to bind the splice to an XML tag using the
`bindSplice` function: `bindSplice "fact" factSplice templateState`.
This returns a new `TemplateState` with factSplice bound to the
`<fact>` tag.  Now, in any of your templates the XML snippet
`<fact>5</fact>` will render as `120`.


### Hooks

Heist provides three hooks to give you more control over the template
rendering process.  They are `onLoad`, `preRun`, and `postRun`.  They
are monadic filter functions that you can use to read or transform
templates at different points in time.  The `onLoad` hook is called
once for every template immediately after it is loaded from disk.
`preRun` and `postRun` are called immediately before and after each
template is rendered.  


### Setting up TemplateState

All of Heist's splices, templates, and hooks are stored in
`TemplateState`.  Heist provides `TemplateState` modifier functions
for configuration.  `emptyTemplateState` gives you reasonable defaults
that you build on to suit your needs.  Let's look at an example to
illustrate.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.hs}
myHeistState =
    addOnLoadHook onLoad $
    addPreRunHook preRun $
    addPostRunHook postRun $
    bindSplice "fact" factSplice emptyTemplateState

main = do
    ets <- loadTemplates "templates" myHeistState
    let ts = either error id ets
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In this example we added the custom factSplice function from the last
section to the default set of splices as well as our own hooks.  Then
we called loadTemplates to add templates from the `templates`
directory in the filesystem to our template state.

The three addXYZHook functions above add hooks to the TemplateState.
Previous hooks are not overwritten--the new hooks are appended to any
other hooks that have already been added.  

### Generating Pages with Heist

Once you have built a `TemplateState`, you are ready to generate pages
with Heist.  The two functions you will use most frequently are
`renderTemplate` and `callTemplate`.  `renderTemplate` renders a
template by name and returns it as a Maybe ByteString.  `callTemplate`
is similar but is designed for templates that require parameters to be
bound by the caller.  When you're calling the template from another
template with the apply tag, this is easily accomplished by using
`<bind>` within the body of the `<apply>`.  But when you are "calling"
the template from code, binding splices for each of the template's
parameters is cumbersome.  `callTemplate` does this for you.

[This website](http://github.com/snapframework/snap-website) is a good
example of how Heist can be used.  It demonstrates some of the more
sophisticated things you can do with Heist such as custom splices,
dynamic template reloading, and content caching.  In the future much
of the general purpose code in snap-website will become built-in
functionality in snap-core.

NOTE: It should be emphasized that Heist is still in the early stages
of development, and its interfaces are subject to change.

Commit message:

Tweak about and tutorial text a little.

templates/docs/tutorials/heist.md, after:

## Heist Templates

Heist is an XML templating engine based loosely on ideas from the Lift
Web Framework.  It functions as a bridge between your web application
and its views.  Heist templates are XML fragments that are not
required to have a single root element.  Heist uses hexpat, a haskell
interface to the Expat XML library, for fast XML parsing and
manipulation.  

Heist is being developed by the Snap Team in conjunction with Snap,
but Heist is a completely standalone library with no dependencies on
Snap.  Snap itself is also template-agnostic and does not depend on
Heist.  In the future, we are planning to use Heist in higher-level
Snap functionality, but the core Snap infrastructure and web server
will remain free of Heist dependencies, leaving the choice of
templating engine up to the user.  That said, we strongly encourage
you to use Heist in your Snap applications so you can take full
advantage of Snap's capabilities.

Heist templates serve two primary design goals.  First, they
facilitate the separation of the view from the other aspects of your
application.  Second, they provide abstraction capabilities that allow
you to avoid repeated template code.  This allows you to follow the
DRY principle (Don't Repeat Yourself) in the development of your
application views.

Heist has two primary template abstraction constructs: bind and apply.
They are implemented as specialized XML tags.

### The `<bind ...>` tag

The `bind` tag allows you to bind XML content to a single tag.
Whenever the bound tag is used, the template engine will substitute
the 'bind' tag's child nodes in its place.  This allows you to
essentially create your own higher-level markup language that Heist
transforms into whatever XML-based markup language is native to your
application.

#### Attributes

The `bind` tag has a single required attribute called `tag` specifying the
name of the bound tag.  If this attribute is not present, then the
`bind` tag has no effect.

#### Example

Here's a simple example demonstrating the use of bind.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.html}
  <bind tag="longname">
    Einstein, Feynman, Heisenberg, and Newton Research Corporation
    Ltd.<sup>TM</sup>
  </bind>
  <p>
    We at <longname/> have research expertise in many areas of physics.
    Employment at <longname/> carries significant prestige.  The rigorous
    hiring process developed by <longname/> is leading the industry.
  </p>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The full company name will be substituted at every occurrance of the
`<longname/>` tag.  This eliminates repetition and makes it easier to
make changes.

### The `<apply ...>` tag

The `apply` tag loads one of your application templates and inserts it
into the current template's XML tree.  If the target template does not
have any special tags, then the contents of the `apply` tag are
ignored.

#### Attributes

The `apply` tag has one required attribute called `template`.  This
attribute specifies the name of the template being applied.  Heist
template names work a little differently from traditional paths and
filenames.

If the template name contains a '/' character, then it will behave
like traditional relative and absolute paths.  The root directory will
be the root of your template directory tree, and the current directory
will be the directory containing whatever template is currently being
processed.

If the template name does not have any '/' characters, then Heist
searches in the current directory for a template with that name.  If
it finds one, then Heist applies that template.  The different
behavior is that if the named template is not found in the current
directory, Heist recursively searches up the directory hierarchy
looking for the name.  Heist uses the first template it finds on the
way up that has that name.  If no template is found, then you'll get
an error.

This cascading behavior allows you to put site-wide templates in the
top-level directory and selectively override them in subdirectories
for certain parts of your site.

#### Example

Consider a navigation menu that is used on many different pages of
your site.  You want to avoid duplicating the HTML code in multiple
different page templates, so you might put it in a template file by
itself called `nav.tpl`:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.html}
  <ul>
    <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
    <li><a href="/faq">FAQ</a></li>
    <li><a href="/contact">Contact</a></li>
  </ul>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Then to include this nav template in your front page template, you
would use the `apply` tag.  Here is what a simple home page template
`home.tpl` might look like:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.html}
  <html>
    <head>
      <title>Home Page</title>
    </head>
    <body>
      <h1>Home Page</h1>
      <apply template="nav"/>
      <p>Welcome to our home page</p>
    </body>
  </html>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When a user requests the `/home` URL, Heist would serve `home.tpl`,
and the nav template would automatically be inserted into the page.
Here is what the HTML will look like after Heist processes the
template:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.html}
  <html>
    <head>
      <title>Home Page</title>
    </head>
    <body>
      <h1>Home Page</h1>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
        <li><a href="/faq">FAQ</a></li>
        <li><a href="/contact">Contact</a></li>
      </ul>
      <p>Welcome to our home page</p>
    </body>
  </html>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


### The `<content>` tag

Sometimes it is useful to pass information (usually in the form of XML
data) into the template when it is applied so the template can insert
it in useful places.  This allows you to build page templates that are
not just static blocks of code.

In our previous example, we did not pass any parameters to the `nav`
template when it was applied, so the `<apply>` tag was empty.  If we
include data inside the body of the `<apply>` tag, the template being
called can access this data with the `<content>` tag.  The following
simple example illustrates this concept.  We create a site template
called `default.tpl`:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.html}
<html>
  <head>
    <title>Home Page</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="header">
      <h1>XYZ Inc.</h1>
    </div>
    <div id="content">
      <content />
    </div>
    <div id="footer">
      <p>Copyright XYZ Inc</p>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


The `<content>` tag "pulls in" the page content from the calling
template and inserts it into the content `<div>`.

Now we have a template for our home page called home.tpl:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.html}
<apply template="default">
  <h1>Home Page</h1>
  <p>Welcome to XYZ Inc</p>
</apply>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

And when Heist receives a request to `/home`, it will serve the
following:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.html}
<html>
  <head>
    <title>Home Page</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="header">
      <h1>XYZ Inc.</h1>
    </div>
    <div id="content">
      <h1>Home Page</h1>
      <p>Welcome to XYZ Inc</p>
    </div>
    <div id="footer">
      <p>Copyright XYZ Inc</p>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The two lines from inside the `<apply>` tag have been substituted into
the content div in `default.tpl`.  Notice the difference between these
two examples.  In the first example we pulled in a template
(`nav.tpl`) that went inside the page being served (`home.tpl`).  In
the second example, `home.tpl` is still the intended target of
requests, but the `default.tpl` template surrounds the content that
home.tpl supplies as an argument.  This seems like different behavior,
but it is just a different use of the same `apply` tag.  This
illustrates the power of a simple concept like `apply`.

### Bind and Apply with Multiple Parameters

What if, in the above example, we decided that the contents of the
header div should be different for different pages?  To do this, we
need a way to pass multiple parameters into a template.  Heist
provides this capability with the `<bind>` tag.  Inside the body of a
`<apply>` tag, you can have multiple bind tags surrounding data to be
passed as separate parameters.  Each `<bind>` tag must have a `tag`
attribute that provides a name for its contents just as described
above.  Then, inside the template, those tags will be substituted with
the appropriate data.

The previous example only needs a few modifications to `default.tpl`
to allow multiple parameters.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.html}
<html>
  <head>
    <title>Home Page</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="header">
      <header/>
    </div>
    <div id="content">
      <main/>
    </div>
    <div id="footer">
      <p>Copyright XYZ Inc</p>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


And `home.tpl` uses the `<bind>` tag with a name attribute to define
values for the `<header/>` and `<main/>` tags:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.html}
<apply template="default">
  <bind tag="header">
    <h1>XYZ Inc.</h1>
  </bind>
  Some in-between text.
  <bind tag="main">
    <h1>Home Page</h1>
    <p>Welcome to XYZ Inc</p>
  </bind>
</apply>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The result template for this example is the same as the previous
example.

NOTE: In this example the `<content/>` tag is still bound as described
above.  The `<content/>` tag is always bound to the complete contents
of the calling `apply` tag.  However, any `bind` tags inside the apply
will disappear.  If we changed `default.tpl` to the following:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.html}
<foo>
  <content/>
</foo>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Then the above `home.tpl` template would render like this:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.html}
<foo>
  Some in-between text.
</foo>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


### The `<ignore>` tag

In some cases you may want to include example data in a Heist template
that should not be rendered when the site is active.  Heist provides
the `<ignore>` tag for this purpose.  All `<ignore>` tags and their
contents will be eliminated in a template's output.


## Heist Programming

Heist lets you bind XML tags to Haskell code with a splice.  A
`Splice` takes the input node from the template and outputs a list of
XML nodes that get "spliced" back into the template.  This lets you
call haskell functions from your templates, while ensuring that
business logic does not creep into the presentation layer.

Splices that you write must have the type `mySplice :: Splice m` where
m is the monad of your choice (usually Snap).  `Splice m` is a type
synonym for `TemplateMonad m Template`.  The `getParamNode` function
is a TemplateMonad computation that lets you get the contents of the
splice node.  You can then do any processing you want using
functionality provided by
[hexpat](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/hexpat).

#### Example

The following is code for a splice that calculates the factorial of a
number.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.hs}
factSplice :: Splice Snap
factSplice = do
    input <- getParamNode
    let text = B.unpack $ textContent input
        n = read text :: Int
    return [Text $ B.pack $ show $ product [1..n]]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You must tell Heist to bind the splice to an XML tag using the
`bindSplice` function: `bindSplice "fact" factSplice templateState`.
This returns a new `TemplateState` with factSplice bound to the
`<fact>` tag.  Now, in any of your templates the XML snippet
`<fact>5</fact>` will render as `120`.


### Hooks

Heist provides three hooks to give you more control over the template
rendering process.  They are `onLoad`, `preRun`, and `postRun`.  They
are monadic filter functions that you can use to read or transform
templates at different points in time.  The `onLoad` hook is called
once for every template immediately after it is loaded from disk.
`preRun` and `postRun` are called immediately before and after each
template is rendered.  


### Setting up TemplateState

All of Heist's splices, templates, and hooks are stored in
`TemplateState`.  Heist provides `TemplateState` modifier functions
for configuration.  `emptyTemplateState` gives you reasonable defaults
that you build on to suit your needs.  Let's look at an example to
illustrate.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.hs}
myHeistState =
    addOnLoadHook onLoad $
    addPreRunHook preRun $
    addPostRunHook postRun $
    bindSplice "fact" factSplice emptyTemplateState

main = do
    ets <- loadTemplates "templates" myHeistState
    let ts = either error id ets
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In this example we added the custom factSplice function from the last
section to the default set of splices as well as our own hooks.  Then
we called loadTemplates to add templates from the `templates`
directory in the filesystem to our template state.

The three addXYZHook functions above add hooks to the TemplateState.
Previous hooks are not overwritten--the new hooks are appended to any
other hooks that have already been added.  

### Generating Pages with Heist

Once you have built a `TemplateState`, you are ready to generate pages
with Heist.  The two functions you will use most frequently are
`renderTemplate` and `callTemplate`.  `renderTemplate` renders a
template by name and returns it as a Maybe ByteString.  `callTemplate`
is similar but is designed for templates that require parameters to be
bound by the caller.  When you're calling the template from another
template with the apply tag, this is easily accomplished by using
`<bind>` within the body of the `<apply>`.  But when you are "calling"
the template from code, binding splices for each of the template's
parameters is cumbersome.  `callTemplate` does this for you.

[This website](http://github.com/snapframework/snap-website) is a good
example of how Heist can be used.  It demonstrates some of the more
sophisticated things you can do with Heist such as custom splices,
dynamic template reloading, and content caching.  In the future much
of the general purpose code in snap-website will be integrated into
Snap.  Another good way to learn about programming Heist is to look at
the [code for the built-in splices](/docs/api/heist).  The code
for these splices is in the Text.Templating.Heist.Splices module.

NOTE: It should be emphasized that Heist is still in the early stages
of development, and its interfaces are subject to change.
