templates/faq.md, before:

<div id="faqspage">
## Frequently Asked Questions

<div class="faqs">

1. [How can I report a bug in Snap?         ](#how-can-i-report-a-bug-in-snap)
1. [Is anyone using Snap in production?     ](#is-anyone-using-snap-in-production)
1. [Where's the high-level functionality?   ](#wheres-the-high-level-functionality)
1. [Why can't I install Snap?               ](#why-cant-i-install-snap)
1. [How do I run my app in development mode?](#how-do-i-run-my-app-in-development-mode)
1. [Why do I get a "cannot find normal object file" error when building Snap?](#why-do-i-get-a-cannot-find-normal-object-file-error-when-building-snap)
1. [Why doesn't Heist display templates?    ](#why-doesnt-heist-display-templates)
1. [How do I do looping in Heist?           ](#how-do-i-do-looping-in-heist)
1. [Why can't I nest a `div` in a `p` with Heist?](#why-cant-i-nest-a-div-in-a-p-with-heist)
1. [How do I get the libev backend working? ](#how-do-i-get-the-libev-backend-working)
1. [How can I get debugging output?         ](#how-can-i-get-debugging-output)
1. [Why does throughput plummet when I run snap with multiple cores?](#why-does-throughput-plummet-when-i-run-snap-with-multiple-cores)
1. [How do I fix the libstdc++ error?](#how-do-i-fix-the-libstdc-error)
1. [How can I help?                         ](#how-can-i-help)

</div>



### How can I report a bug in Snap?

Found a bug in Snap? Please create a ticket on our
[issue tracker.](http://github.com/snapframework/snap-core/issues)


### Is anyone using Snap in production?

Yes!  Here is a list of sites that we know of that use Snap.  Let us know if
you know of others:

  -  [housetab.org](http://housetab.org) - a webapp for sharing expenses (source code [here](http://darcsden.com/position/housetab/))

  -  [JCU](https://github.com/norm2782/JCU) a web-based Prolog environment.

  -  [hpaste](http://hpaste.org/), a simple Haskell pastebin.  A blog post
     about it is [here](http://chrisdone.com/posts/2011-06-05-postgres-hpaste-edsls.html)
     and the source code is hosted [here](https://github.com/chrisdone/amelie).

  -  [Darcsden](http://darcsden.com) is a nifty github-like source
     code hosting site for darcs.

  -  [snap-pastie](https://github.com/Palmik/snap-pastie) is a simple pastebin
     website that uses some of the most recent, bleeding-edge Snap development.

  -  [http://snapframework.com](http://snapframework.com) (this site)

  -  [http://ego.fm           ](http://ego.fm) (not always up)


### Where's the high-level functionality?

Our goal is for Snap to be a very fast, stable, *high-level* web framework at
or above the same level of abstraction as frameworks like Ruby on Rails,
Django, etc.  During early planning and development we concluded that to
accomplish this goal we needed to build our own web server and API to interface
with it.  This was an unanticipated detour, and we will resume working on
higher-level functionality when the core has stabilized.


### Why can't I install Snap?

First, make sure you have `"$HOME/.cabal/bin"` at the beginning of your path.

You may have an old version of Cabal.  Try running "`cabal update && cabal
install Cabal`".  After this, "`cabal --version`" should say that you're using
version 1.8.0.4 of the Cabal library or higher.  After you do this, try
installing Snap again.

If that doesn't work, and you're getting an error that mentions `monads-fd` or
`transformers`, try running "`cabal install --reinstall monads-fd`"
(or `transformers`).

If you are an OpenBSD user, check out the guide Jim Razmus wrote on [installing
Snap](http://www.bonetruck.org/2010/10/quick-start-to-web-app-development-with-the-snap-framework-and-openbsd.html).

If you're still having trouble, please email our [mailing
list](http://mailman-mail5.webfaction.com/listinfo/snap) or contact us on our
[IRC channel](http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=snapframework&uio=d4)
(`#snapframework` on [freenode](http://freenode.net/)).


### How do I run my app in development mode?

`cabal clean; cabal install -fdevelopment`

If you've already built your application without development mode, it's
important to do a clean first.

NOTE: As of Snap 0.6, to get development mode you first need to build snap
with `-fhint`, and then build your application with `-fdevelopment`.  If you
don't do this, you'll get `Could not find module 'Snap.Loader.Devel'`.

### Why do I get a "cannot find normal object file" error when building Snap?

If you try to build Snap in profiling mode, sometimes you will encounter this error:

~~~~~~~~ {.shell}
src/Snap/Starter.hs:1:0:
     cannot find normal object file `dist/build/snap/snap-tmp/Snap/StarterTH.o'
~~~~~~~~

GHC has a bug in which it gets confused about where to look for object files
when a) using template haskell, and b) compiling in profiling mode. The
workaround is to compile the library without profiling, then reconfigure and
rebuild:

~~~~~~~ {.shell}
$ cabal configure
$ cabal build
$ cabal configure -p
$ cabal build
~~~~~~~

### Why doesn't Heist display templates?

The most common problem we've seen is that you have ".tpl" included as part of
your template name.  Heist automatically adds the ".tpl" extension, so you
shouldn't include it.

### How do I do looping in Heist?

Heist is different from a lot of other template systems in this regard.  You
actually don't do any looping in Heist.  You do your looping in Haskell.  See
[http://softwaresimply.blogspot.com/2011/04/looping-and-control-flow-in-heist.html](http://softwaresimply.blogspot.com/2011/04/looping-and-control-flow-in-heist.html)
for more information.

### Why can't I nest a `div` in a `p` with Heist?

This is not allowed in HTML.  Suppose you write HTML that look like the
following:

~~~~~~ {.html}
<p>
  <div>
    Some content
  </div>
</p>
~~~~~~

It may look like you've nested a `div` element inside of a `p` element, but
that isn't what really happened.  In fact, the start tag `<div>` caused the
paragraph to end.  The `div` element occurs after the `p` element.  Finally,
the closing `</p>` tag doesn't match anything, and most web browsers will
discard it.

Heist HTML templates parse things the same way, but since templates are
expected to be valid HTML 5, the invalid closing tag causes a parse error.
Heist prefers to give you the error sooner, rather than surprising you with
an unexpected document structure in your splices.

The best answer is to just place the `div` element at the top level beside
your paragraphs.  That's what you were doing anyway, so it won't break
anything.

Remember that you can disable HTML 5 parsing by naming your templates with the
suffix `.xtpl`, so if you don't want Heist to implicitly close paragraphs and
follow other HTML 5 specific rules, you can follow XML document rules instead.

### How do I get the libev backend working?

To install Snap's [libev](http://software.schmorp.de/pkg/libev.html) backend,
ensure you have the `libev` development libraries installed on your system and
pass the `-flibev` flag to `cabal` when you install `snap-server`:

~~~~~~ {.shell}
$ cabal install snap-server -flibev
~~~~~~

If you get an undefined symbol "`EVFLAG_SIGNALFD`" then you'll need to
install the latest [libev](http://software.schmorp.de/pkg/libev.html)
from [source](http://dist.schmorp.de/libev/).


### Why does throughput plummet when I run snap with multiple cores?

The parallel GC introduced in GHC 6.10 doesn't seem to play very well with
Snap. If you turn parallel GC off (using the "`-qg`" flag, e.g. "`./foo-website
+RTS -N -qg`") throughput should improve dramatically.


### How can I get debugging output?

With recent (>0.2.12) snap-core, if you set the environment variable `DEBUG=1`
then Snap will produce debugging output to stderr. There is a *very* slight
performance penalty associated with this feature; if you are in a production
setting and require speed at all costs, you can disable debug output when
building `snap-core` by passing the `no-debug` flag to `cabal install`:

~~~~~~~~ {.shell}
$ cabal install snap-core -fno-debug
~~~~~~~~


### How do I fix the libstdc++ error?

In some cases (most notably on MacOS), people have encountered this error when
building snap:

~~~~~~~~ {.shell}
Loading package double-conversion-0.2.0.1 ... <command line>: can't load
.so/.DLL for: stdc++ (dlopen(libstdc++.dylib, 9): image not found)
~~~~~~~~

The issue is supposed to be fixed in GHC 7.4, but until then rebuilding
blaze-textual with the following command has been known to work.

~~~~~~~~ {.shell}
$ cabal install blaze-textual --reinstall -fnative
~~~~~~~~

### How can I help?

##### Use Snap to build real websites.

This is perhaps the best way to help.  Let us know what issues you encounter
and work on fixing the ones you care about most.  If you are unable to fix a
problem, you can still help by writing an automated test case that detects the
problem.

It's also very likely that infrastructure you create in the course of building
a real website can be generalized and merged into Snap.  Much of Snap's
[higher-level functionality](#wheres-the-high-level-functionality) should
become more evident as we find code patterns common to real-world Snap
websites.  Communicating real-world Snap development experiences to us is a
great way to contribute to this effort.

##### Develop automated memory leak and performance regression testing.

Currently our top priority is working out correctness and performance issues in
the server.  We have a CI build server that automatically runs all our test
cases, but we don't have an automated system to test for performance and memory
leaks.  This would be a very helpful addition.


##### Improve test cases and code coverage.

While not an exotic task, expanding our test suite can contribute significantly
to the stability of the project.


##### Improve documentation and tutorials.

It's easy for documentation to get out of date.  We try to keep it up-to-date,
but we can always use more eyes to catch things that slip through the cracks.


</div>

Commit message:

Add FAQ entry ‘Can I develop with Snap on Windows?’

templates/faq.md, after:

<div id="faqspage">
## Frequently Asked Questions

<div class="faqs">

1. [How can I report a bug in Snap?         ](#how-can-i-report-a-bug-in-snap)
1. [Is anyone using Snap in production?     ](#is-anyone-using-snap-in-production)
1. [Where's the high-level functionality?   ](#wheres-the-high-level-functionality)
1. [Why can't I install Snap?               ](#why-cant-i-install-snap)
1. [How do I run my app in development mode?](#how-do-i-run-my-app-in-development-mode)
1. [Why do I get a "cannot find normal object file" error when building Snap?](#why-do-i-get-a-cannot-find-normal-object-file-error-when-building-snap)
1. [Why doesn't Heist display templates?    ](#why-doesnt-heist-display-templates)
1. [How do I do looping in Heist?           ](#how-do-i-do-looping-in-heist)
1. [Why can't I nest a `div` in a `p` with Heist?](#why-cant-i-nest-a-div-in-a-p-with-heist)
1. [How do I get the libev backend working? ](#how-do-i-get-the-libev-backend-working)
1. [How can I get debugging output?         ](#how-can-i-get-debugging-output)
1. [Why does throughput plummet when I run snap with multiple cores?](#why-does-throughput-plummet-when-i-run-snap-with-multiple-cores)
1. [How do I fix the libstdc++ error?](#how-do-i-fix-the-libstdc-error)
1. [Can I develop with Snap on Windows?](#can-i-develop-with-snap-on-windows)
1. [How can I help?                         ](#how-can-i-help)

</div>



### How can I report a bug in Snap?

Found a bug in Snap? Please create a ticket on our
[issue tracker.](http://github.com/snapframework/snap-core/issues)


### Is anyone using Snap in production?

Yes!  Here is a list of sites that we know of that use Snap.  Let us know if
you know of others:

  -  [housetab.org](http://housetab.org) - a webapp for sharing expenses (source code [here](http://darcsden.com/position/housetab/))

  -  [JCU](https://github.com/norm2782/JCU) a web-based Prolog environment.

  -  [hpaste](http://hpaste.org/), a simple Haskell pastebin.  A blog post
     about it is [here](http://chrisdone.com/posts/2011-06-05-postgres-hpaste-edsls.html)
     and the source code is hosted [here](https://github.com/chrisdone/amelie).

  -  [Darcsden](http://darcsden.com) is a nifty github-like source
     code hosting site for darcs.

  -  [snap-pastie](https://github.com/Palmik/snap-pastie) is a simple pastebin
     website that uses some of the most recent, bleeding-edge Snap development.

  -  [http://snapframework.com](http://snapframework.com) (this site)

  -  [http://ego.fm           ](http://ego.fm) (not always up)


### Where's the high-level functionality?

Our goal is for Snap to be a very fast, stable, *high-level* web framework at
or above the same level of abstraction as frameworks like Ruby on Rails,
Django, etc.  During early planning and development we concluded that to
accomplish this goal we needed to build our own web server and API to interface
with it.  This was an unanticipated detour, and we will resume working on
higher-level functionality when the core has stabilized.


### Why can't I install Snap?

First, make sure you have `"$HOME/.cabal/bin"` at the beginning of your path.

You may have an old version of Cabal.  Try running "`cabal update && cabal
install Cabal`".  After this, "`cabal --version`" should say that you're using
version 1.8.0.4 of the Cabal library or higher.  After you do this, try
installing Snap again.

If that doesn't work, and you're getting an error that mentions `monads-fd` or
`transformers`, try running "`cabal install --reinstall monads-fd`"
(or `transformers`).

If you are an OpenBSD user, check out the guide Jim Razmus wrote on [installing
Snap](http://www.bonetruck.org/2010/10/quick-start-to-web-app-development-with-the-snap-framework-and-openbsd.html).

If you're still having trouble, please email our [mailing
list](http://mailman-mail5.webfaction.com/listinfo/snap) or contact us on our
[IRC channel](http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=snapframework&uio=d4)
(`#snapframework` on [freenode](http://freenode.net/)).


### How do I run my app in development mode?

`cabal clean; cabal install -fdevelopment`

If you've already built your application without development mode, it's
important to do a clean first.

NOTE: As of Snap 0.6, to get development mode you first need to build snap
with `-fhint`, and then build your application with `-fdevelopment`.  If you
don't do this, you'll get `Could not find module 'Snap.Loader.Devel'`.

### Why do I get a "cannot find normal object file" error when building Snap?

If you try to build Snap in profiling mode, sometimes you will encounter this error:

~~~~~~~~ {.shell}
src/Snap/Starter.hs:1:0:
     cannot find normal object file `dist/build/snap/snap-tmp/Snap/StarterTH.o'
~~~~~~~~

GHC has a bug in which it gets confused about where to look for object files
when a) using template haskell, and b) compiling in profiling mode. The
workaround is to compile the library without profiling, then reconfigure and
rebuild:

~~~~~~~ {.shell}
$ cabal configure
$ cabal build
$ cabal configure -p
$ cabal build
~~~~~~~

### Why doesn't Heist display templates?

The most common problem we've seen is that you have ".tpl" included as part of
your template name.  Heist automatically adds the ".tpl" extension, so you
shouldn't include it.

### How do I do looping in Heist?

Heist is different from a lot of other template systems in this regard.  You
actually don't do any looping in Heist.  You do your looping in Haskell.  See
[http://softwaresimply.blogspot.com/2011/04/looping-and-control-flow-in-heist.html](http://softwaresimply.blogspot.com/2011/04/looping-and-control-flow-in-heist.html)
for more information.

### Why can't I nest a `div` in a `p` with Heist?

This is not allowed in HTML.  Suppose you write HTML that look like the
following:

~~~~~~ {.html}
<p>
  <div>
    Some content
  </div>
</p>
~~~~~~

It may look like you've nested a `div` element inside of a `p` element, but
that isn't what really happened.  In fact, the start tag `<div>` caused the
paragraph to end.  The `div` element occurs after the `p` element.  Finally,
the closing `</p>` tag doesn't match anything, and most web browsers will
discard it.

Heist HTML templates parse things the same way, but since templates are
expected to be valid HTML 5, the invalid closing tag causes a parse error.
Heist prefers to give you the error sooner, rather than surprising you with
an unexpected document structure in your splices.

The best answer is to just place the `div` element at the top level beside
your paragraphs.  That's what you were doing anyway, so it won't break
anything.

Remember that you can disable HTML 5 parsing by naming your templates with the
suffix `.xtpl`, so if you don't want Heist to implicitly close paragraphs and
follow other HTML 5 specific rules, you can follow XML document rules instead.

### How do I get the libev backend working?

To install Snap's [libev](http://software.schmorp.de/pkg/libev.html) backend,
ensure you have the `libev` development libraries installed on your system and
pass the `-flibev` flag to `cabal` when you install `snap-server`:

~~~~~~ {.shell}
$ cabal install snap-server -flibev
~~~~~~

If you get an undefined symbol "`EVFLAG_SIGNALFD`" then you'll need to
install the latest [libev](http://software.schmorp.de/pkg/libev.html)
from [source](http://dist.schmorp.de/libev/).


### Why does throughput plummet when I run snap with multiple cores?

The parallel GC introduced in GHC 6.10 doesn't seem to play very well with
Snap. If you turn parallel GC off (using the "`-qg`" flag, e.g. "`./foo-website
+RTS -N -qg`") throughput should improve dramatically.


### How can I get debugging output?

With recent (>0.2.12) snap-core, if you set the environment variable `DEBUG=1`
then Snap will produce debugging output to stderr. There is a *very* slight
performance penalty associated with this feature; if you are in a production
setting and require speed at all costs, you can disable debug output when
building `snap-core` by passing the `no-debug` flag to `cabal install`:

~~~~~~~~ {.shell}
$ cabal install snap-core -fno-debug
~~~~~~~~


### How do I fix the libstdc++ error?

In some cases (most notably on MacOS), people have encountered this error when
building snap:

~~~~~~~~ {.shell}
Loading package double-conversion-0.2.0.1 ... <command line>: can't load
.so/.DLL for: stdc++ (dlopen(libstdc++.dylib, 9): image not found)
~~~~~~~~

The issue is supposed to be fixed in GHC 7.4, but until then rebuilding
blaze-textual with the following command has been known to work.

~~~~~~~~ {.shell}
$ cabal install blaze-textual --reinstall -fnative
~~~~~~~~

### Can I develop with Snap on Windows?

Yes! Snap 0.5.5 and Snap 0.6 have been tested to work on Windows&nbsp;7 using [Haskell&nbsp;Platform](http://hackage.haskell.org/platform/windows.html)&nbsp;2011.2.0.1.

To compile the Snap 0.6 package on Windows, you will need to apply the work-around
mentioned in FAQ entry [How do I fix the libstdc++ error?](#how-do-i-fix-the-libstdc-error):

~~~~~~~~ {.cmdprompt}
>cabal install blaze-textual --reinstall -fnative
~~~~~~~~

Note that in order to quit a running Snap app on Windows, you need to press `Ctrl+C` *twice*.

### How can I help?

##### Use Snap to build real websites.

This is perhaps the best way to help.  Let us know what issues you encounter
and work on fixing the ones you care about most.  If you are unable to fix a
problem, you can still help by writing an automated test case that detects the
problem.

It's also very likely that infrastructure you create in the course of building
a real website can be generalized and merged into Snap.  Much of Snap's
[higher-level functionality](#wheres-the-high-level-functionality) should
become more evident as we find code patterns common to real-world Snap
websites.  Communicating real-world Snap development experiences to us is a
great way to contribute to this effort.

##### Develop automated memory leak and performance regression testing.

Currently our top priority is working out correctness and performance issues in
the server.  We have a CI build server that automatically runs all our test
cases, but we don't have an automated system to test for performance and memory
leaks.  This would be a very helpful addition.


##### Improve test cases and code coverage.

While not an exotic task, expanding our test suite can contribute significantly
to the stability of the project.


##### Improve documentation and tutorials.

It's easy for documentation to get out of date.  We try to keep it up-to-date,
but we can always use more eyes to catch things that slip through the cracks.


</div>
